In one sense, Brisco and Green's disagree in their beliefs. Brisco thinks it was the guy in room A that did it, while Green thinks it was the one in room B, and the person who did it acted alone. In another sense, they agree in what they believe.  Belief is functionally tied to action, and Brisco and Green are acting in very similar ways.

The fact that sameness of belief is two sided in this way is brought out in the differences between a relativist and a contextualist approach to the attitudes. Relativists take belief to be a relation to a property; one that a person stands in when she self-ascribes that property. The agreement between Brisco and Green comes from their both self-ascribing the property of *currently interrogating the culprit*. Their disagreement comes from the fact that Brisco self-ascribes the property of *inhabiting a world where the culprit is in interrogation room A* and Green self-ascribes the incompatible property of *inhabiting a world where the culprit is in interrogation room B*.

The contextualist views the situation differently. Belief, for the contextualist, is a relation between an individual and a proposition. But propositions have parts, and belief need not be stable across changes in the parts of propositions. But context infects the relation as well, and one's relation to a proposition need not be stable across changes in context. So, Brisco and Green definitely disagree.  Hold the context fixed, and Brisco stands in the belief relation to the proposition that *the culprit is in interrogation room A*, while Green stands in the belief relation to the proposition that *the culprit is in interrogation room B*. Since individual people don't co-locate, these relations cannot both represent reality. But, it may yet *appear* that they agree. After all, both Brisco and Green would honestly tell the Liutenant ``I'm subjecting the culprit to interrogation''. But the contextualist denies that honest reporting tells the whole story, for our words build context in, and the belief relation extracts it.

Disagreement has been a bit of a star figure in recent debates in the philosophy of language. Primarily, it has been used as a tool for assessing the adequacy of different proposals for the semantic contribution of certain expressions. The contestants in battle disagreement are <i>absolutism</i>, <i>contextualism</i>, and <i>relativism</i>, and the standard scorecard has absolutism and relativism coming out on top in virtue of their ability to secure constant content across uses of the expression. Genuine disagreement does seem to require something toward which utterances can entail incompatible commitments, but semantic content is not the only contribution an utterance makes to discourse. Contextualism can appeal other elements of utterances, which may both remain constant and serve as the seat of disagreement.

The difference between contextualism and relativism is generally couched in terms of content, but content is not the only semantically relevant element of linguistic utterances. Also associated with what we say is a context change potential. A different way of representing the difference between contextualism and relativism is not in terms of what they mean but what they do.

If Brisco and Green both believe that they've got the culprit, then they will act in similar ways. They'll look to elicit a confession, offer up bargains, or threaten physical violence. But if Brisco's suspect is in confession room A while Green's is in B, then their actions will have quite different import. Contextualism aligns with absolutism in taking belief to be a relation between a subject and a proposition; a relation that holds just in case the subject takes the proposition to accurately represent the world she inhabits.	Relativism differs in taking belief to be a relation between a subject and a property; a relation that holds just in case the subject self-ascribes the property. (Perhaps not all relativists would be happy with this characterization, taking belief to be a three-place relation among a subject, proposition, and a perspective. But a perspectival proposition is itself a relation; curry that relation and you're left with a property.)
